#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --extra=dev --output-file=requirements-dev.txt
#
alabaster==0.7.16
    # via sphinx
annotated-types==0.7.0
    # via
    #   craft-platforms
    #   pydantic
anyio==4.6.2.post1
    # via
    #   starlette
    #   watchfiles
apeye==1.4.1
    # via sphinx-toolbox
apeye-core==1.1.5
    # via apeye
autodocsumm==0.2.14
    # via sphinx-toolbox
babel==2.16.0
    # via sphinx
backports-tarfile==1.2.0
    # via jaraco-context
beautifulsoup4==4.12.3
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   furo
    #   pyspelling
    #   sphinx-toolbox
black==24.10.0
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
boolean-py==4.0
    # via license-expression
bracex==2.5.post1
    # via wcmatch
cachecontrol[filecache]==0.14.1
    # via sphinx-toolbox
canonical-sphinx[full]==0.2.0
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
canonical-sphinx-extensions==0.0.23
    # via canonical-sphinx
certifi==2024.8.30
    # via requests
cffi==1.17.1
    # via
    #   cryptography
    #   pygit2
chardet==5.2.0
    # via python-debian
charset-normalizer==3.4.0
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   black
    #   uvicorn
codespell==2.3.0
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
colorama==0.4.6
    # via sphinx-autobuild
coverage==7.6.8
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
craft-application==4.5.0
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
craft-archives==2.0.1
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
craft-cli==2.10.1
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
craft-grammar==2.0.1
    # via craft-application
craft-parts==2.1.2
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
craft-platforms==0.4.0
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
craft-providers==2.0.4
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
cryptography==43.0.3
    # via secretstorage
cssutils==2.11.1
    # via dict2css
dict2css==0.3.0.post1
    # via sphinx-toolbox
distro==1.9.0
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   craft-platforms
    #   lazr-restfulclient
docutils==0.21.2
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   myst-parser
    #   readme-renderer
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-tabs
    #   sphinx-toolbox
domdf-python-tools==3.9.0
    # via
    #   apeye
    #   apeye-core
    #   dict2css
    #   sphinx-toolbox
exceptiongroup==1.2.2
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   pytest
filelock==3.16.1
    # via
    #   cachecontrol
    #   sphinx-toolbox
furo==2024.8.6
    # via canonical-sphinx
gitdb==4.0.11
    # via gitpython
gitpython==3.1.43
    # via canonical-sphinx-extensions
h11==0.14.0
    # via uvicorn
html5lib==1.1
    # via
    #   pyspelling
    #   sphinx-toolbox
httplib2==0.22.0
    # via
    #   launchpadlib
    #   lazr-restfulclient
idna==3.10
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   apeye-core
    #   requests
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
importlib-metadata==8.5.0
    # via
    #   keyring
    #   twine
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via pytest
jaraco-classes==3.4.0
    # via keyring
jaraco-context==6.0.1
    # via keyring
jaraco-functools==4.1.0
    # via keyring
jeepney==0.8.0
    # via
    #   keyring
    #   secretstorage
jinja2==3.1.4
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   myst-parser
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-jinja2-compat
keyring==25.5.0
    # via twine
launchpadlib==2.0.0
    # via craft-archives
lazr-restfulclient==0.14.6
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   launchpadlib
lazr-uri==1.0.6
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   launchpadlib
    #   wadllib
license-expression==30.4.0
    # via craft-application
linkify-it-py==2.0.3
    # via canonical-sphinx
lxml==5.3.0
    # via pyspelling
markdown==3.7
    # via pyspelling
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via
    #   mdit-py-plugins
    #   myst-parser
    #   rich
markupsafe==3.0.2
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   sphinx-jinja2-compat
mdit-py-plugins==0.4.2
    # via myst-parser
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
more-itertools==10.5.0
    # via
    #   cssutils
    #   jaraco-classes
    #   jaraco-functools
msgpack==1.1.0
    # via cachecontrol
mypy==1.13.0
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
mypy-extensions==1.0.0
    # via
    #   black
    #   mypy
myst-parser==4.0.0
    # via canonical-sphinx
natsort==8.4.0
    # via domdf-python-tools
nh3==0.2.18
    # via readme-renderer
oauthlib==3.2.2
    # via lazr-restfulclient
overrides==7.7.0
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   craft-grammar
    #   craft-parts
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
packaging==24.2
    # via
    #   black
    #   craft-providers
    #   pytest
    #   sphinx
pathspec==0.12.1
    # via black
pkginfo==1.10.0
    # via twine
platformdirs==4.3.6
    # via
    #   apeye
    #   black
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-cli
pluggy==1.5.0
    # via pytest
polib==1.2.0
    # via sphinx-lint
pycparser==2.22
    # via cffi
pydantic==2.10.1
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-archives
    #   craft-grammar
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
pydantic-core==2.27.1
    # via pydantic
pygit2==1.14.1
    # via craft-application
pygments==2.18.0
    # via
    #   furo
    #   readme-renderer
    #   rich
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-tabs
pyparsing==3.2.0
    # via httplib2
pyspelling==2.10
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
pytest==8.3.3
    # via
    #   pytest-check
    #   pytest-mock
    #   pytest-subprocess
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
pytest-check==2.4.1
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
pytest-mock==3.14.0
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
pytest-subprocess==1.5.2
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
python-debian==0.1.49
    # via craft-archives
pyxdg==0.28
    # via craft-parts
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-cli
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
    #   myst-parser
    #   pyspelling
    #   snap-helpers
readme-renderer==44.0
    # via twine
regex==2024.11.6
    # via sphinx-lint
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   apeye
    #   cachecontrol
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
    #   requests-toolbelt
    #   requests-unixsocket2
    #   sphinx
    #   twine
requests-toolbelt==1.0.0
    # via twine
requests-unixsocket2==0.4.2
    # via
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
rfc3986==2.0.0
    # via twine
rich==13.9.4
    # via twine
ruamel-yaml==0.18.6
    # via sphinx-toolbox
ruamel-yaml-clib==0.2.12
    # via ruamel-yaml
secretstorage==3.3.3
    # via keyring
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   html5lib
    #   lazr-restfulclient
smmap==5.0.1
    # via gitdb
snap-helpers==0.4.2
    # via craft-application
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via anyio
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via sphinx
soupsieve==2.6
    # via
    #   beautifulsoup4
    #   pyspelling
spdx==2.5.1
    # via spdx-lookup
spdx-lookup==0.3.3
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
sphinx==7.4.7
    # via
    #   autodocsumm
    #   canonical-sphinx
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   furo
    #   myst-parser
    #   sphinx-autobuild
    #   sphinx-autodoc-typehints
    #   sphinx-basic-ng
    #   sphinx-copybutton
    #   sphinx-design
    #   sphinx-notfound-page
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-reredirects
    #   sphinx-tabs
    #   sphinx-toolbox
    #   sphinxcontrib-details-directive
    #   sphinxcontrib-jquery
    #   sphinxext-opengraph
sphinx-autobuild==2024.10.3
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
sphinx-autodoc-typehints==2.3.0
    # via
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
    #   sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-basic-ng==1.0.0b2
    # via furo
sphinx-copybutton==0.5.2
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-design==0.6.1
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-jinja2-compat==0.3.0
    # via sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-lint==1.0.0
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
sphinx-notfound-page==1.0.4
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-prompt==1.8.0
    # via sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-reredirects==0.1.5
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-tabs==3.4.5
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx
    #   sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-toolbox==3.8.1
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-details-directive==0.1.0
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.1.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jquery==4.1
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxext-opengraph==0.9.1
    # via canonical-sphinx
starlette==0.41.3
    # via sphinx-autobuild
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via
    #   rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
    #   sphinx-toolbox
tomli==2.1.0
    # via
    #   black
    #   mypy
    #   pytest
    #   sphinx
twine==5.1.1
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
types-pyyaml==6.0.12.20240917
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
types-requests==2.32.0.20241016
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
types-setuptools==75.5.0.20241122
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
types-tabulate==0.9.0.20240106
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   black
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-platforms
    #   domdf-python-tools
    #   mypy
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
    #   rich
    #   sphinx-toolbox
    #   uvicorn
uc-micro-py==1.0.3
    # via linkify-it-py
urllib3==2.2.3
    # via
    #   requests
    #   requests-unixsocket2
    #   twine
    #   types-requests
uvicorn==0.32.1
    # via sphinx-autobuild
wadllib==2.0.0
    # via lazr-restfulclient
watchfiles==1.0.0
    # via sphinx-autobuild
wcmatch==10.0
    # via pyspelling
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via html5lib
websockets==14.1
    # via sphinx-autobuild
wheel==0.45.1
    # via rockcraft (pyproject.toml)
zipp==3.21.0
    # via importlib-metadata

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
