#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --extra=doc --output-file=requirements-doc.txt
#
alabaster==0.7.16
    # via sphinx
annotated-types==0.7.0
    # via
    #   craft-platforms
    #   pydantic
anyio==4.6.0
    # via
    #   starlette
    #   watchfiles
apeye==1.4.1
    # via sphinx-toolbox
apeye-core==1.1.5
    # via apeye
autodocsumm==0.2.13
    # via sphinx-toolbox
babel==2.16.0
    # via sphinx
beautifulsoup4==4.12.3
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   furo
    #   pyspelling
    #   sphinx-toolbox
boolean-py==4.0
    # via license-expression
bracex==2.5.post1
    # via wcmatch
cachecontrol[filecache]==0.14.0
    # via sphinx-toolbox
canonical-sphinx[full]==0.2.0
    # via rockcraft (setup.py)
canonical-sphinx-extensions==0.0.23
    # via canonical-sphinx
certifi==2024.8.30
    # via requests
cffi==1.17.1
    # via pygit2
charset-normalizer==3.4.0
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via uvicorn
colorama==0.4.6
    # via sphinx-autobuild
craft-application==4.3.0
    # via rockcraft (setup.py)
craft-archives==2.0.0
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (setup.py)
craft-cli==2.8.0
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (setup.py)
craft-grammar==2.0.1
    # via craft-application
craft-parts==2.1.2
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (setup.py)
craft-platforms==0.3.1
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (setup.py)
craft-providers==2.0.4
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   rockcraft (setup.py)
cssutils==2.11.1
    # via dict2css
dict2css==0.3.0.post1
    # via sphinx-toolbox
distro==1.9.0
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   craft-platforms
    #   lazr-restfulclient
docutils==0.21.2
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   myst-parser
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-tabs
    #   sphinx-toolbox
domdf-python-tools==3.9.0
    # via
    #   apeye
    #   apeye-core
    #   dict2css
    #   sphinx-toolbox
exceptiongroup==1.2.2
    # via anyio
filelock==3.16.1
    # via
    #   cachecontrol
    #   sphinx-toolbox
furo==2024.8.6
    # via canonical-sphinx
gitdb==4.0.11
    # via gitpython
gitpython==3.1.43
    # via canonical-sphinx-extensions
h11==0.14.0
    # via uvicorn
html5lib==1.1
    # via
    #   pyspelling
    #   sphinx-toolbox
httplib2==0.22.0
    # via
    #   launchpadlib
    #   lazr-restfulclient
idna==3.10
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   apeye-core
    #   requests
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
jinja2==3.1.4
    # via
    #   myst-parser
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-jinja2-compat
launchpadlib==2.0.0
    # via craft-archives
lazr-restfulclient==0.14.6
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   launchpadlib
lazr-uri==1.0.6
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   launchpadlib
    #   wadllib
license-expression==30.3.1
    # via craft-application
linkify-it-py==2.0.3
    # via canonical-sphinx
lxml==5.3.0
    # via pyspelling
markdown==3.7
    # via pyspelling
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via
    #   mdit-py-plugins
    #   myst-parser
markupsafe==3.0.1
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   sphinx-jinja2-compat
mdit-py-plugins==0.4.2
    # via myst-parser
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
more-itertools==10.5.0
    # via cssutils
msgpack==1.1.0
    # via cachecontrol
myst-parser==4.0.0
    # via canonical-sphinx
natsort==8.4.0
    # via domdf-python-tools
oauthlib==3.2.2
    # via lazr-restfulclient
overrides==7.7.0
    # via
    #   craft-archives
    #   craft-grammar
    #   craft-parts
    #   rockcraft (setup.py)
packaging==24.1
    # via
    #   craft-providers
    #   sphinx
platformdirs==4.3.6
    # via
    #   apeye
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-cli
polib==1.2.0
    # via sphinx-lint
pycparser==2.22
    # via cffi
pydantic==2.9.2
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-archives
    #   craft-grammar
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
pydantic-core==2.23.4
    # via pydantic
pygit2==1.14.1
    # via craft-application
pygments==2.18.0
    # via
    #   furo
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-tabs
pyparsing==3.1.4
    # via httplib2
pyspelling==2.10
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx
    #   rockcraft (setup.py)
pyxdg==0.28
    # via craft-parts
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-cli
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
    #   myst-parser
    #   pyspelling
    #   snap-helpers
regex==2024.9.11
    # via sphinx-lint
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   apeye
    #   cachecontrol
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
    #   requests-unixsocket2
    #   sphinx
requests-unixsocket2==0.4.2
    # via
    #   craft-parts
    #   craft-providers
ruamel-yaml==0.18.6
    # via sphinx-toolbox
ruamel-yaml-clib==0.2.8
    # via ruamel-yaml
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   html5lib
    #   lazr-restfulclient
smmap==5.0.1
    # via gitdb
snap-helpers==0.4.2
    # via craft-application
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via anyio
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via sphinx
soupsieve==2.6
    # via
    #   beautifulsoup4
    #   pyspelling
spdx==2.5.1
    # via spdx-lookup
spdx-lookup==0.3.3
    # via rockcraft (setup.py)
sphinx==7.4.7
    # via
    #   autodocsumm
    #   canonical-sphinx
    #   canonical-sphinx-extensions
    #   furo
    #   myst-parser
    #   sphinx-autobuild
    #   sphinx-autodoc-typehints
    #   sphinx-basic-ng
    #   sphinx-copybutton
    #   sphinx-design
    #   sphinx-notfound-page
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-reredirects
    #   sphinx-tabs
    #   sphinx-toolbox
    #   sphinxcontrib-details-directive
    #   sphinxcontrib-jquery
    #   sphinxext-opengraph
sphinx-autobuild==2024.10.3
    # via rockcraft (setup.py)
sphinx-autodoc-typehints==2.3.0
    # via
    #   rockcraft (setup.py)
    #   sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-basic-ng==1.0.0b2
    # via furo
sphinx-copybutton==0.5.2
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-design==0.6.1
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-jinja2-compat==0.3.0
    # via sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-lint==1.0.0
    # via rockcraft (setup.py)
sphinx-notfound-page==1.0.4
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-prompt==1.8.0
    # via sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-reredirects==0.1.5
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinx-tabs==3.4.5
    # via
    #   canonical-sphinx
    #   sphinx-toolbox
sphinx-toolbox==3.8.1
    # via rockcraft (setup.py)
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-details-directive==0.1.0
    # via rockcraft (setup.py)
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.1.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jquery==4.1
    # via canonical-sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxext-opengraph==0.9.1
    # via canonical-sphinx
starlette==0.39.2
    # via sphinx-autobuild
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via
    #   rockcraft (setup.py)
    #   sphinx-toolbox
tomli==2.0.2
    # via sphinx
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   craft-application
    #   craft-platforms
    #   domdf-python-tools
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
    #   sphinx-toolbox
    #   uvicorn
uc-micro-py==1.0.3
    # via linkify-it-py
urllib3==2.2.3
    # via
    #   requests
    #   requests-unixsocket2
uvicorn==0.31.1
    # via sphinx-autobuild
wadllib==2.0.0
    # via lazr-restfulclient
watchfiles==0.24.0
    # via sphinx-autobuild
wcmatch==10.0
    # via pyspelling
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via html5lib
websockets==13.1
    # via sphinx-autobuild

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
