.. meta::
    :description: Migrate a rock’s base from ubuntu@24.04 to ubuntu@26.04 and ubuntu@25.10.

.. _how-to-migrate-2604:

Change from ``ubuntu@24.04`` to ``ubuntu@26.04``
================================================

This is a guide for migrating a rock that uses ``ubuntu@24.04`` as its base to ``ubuntu@26.04``.

The ``ubuntu@26.04`` base is built from Ubuntu 26.04 LTS. For most rocks, the migration consists of
checking dependencies and extensions. The guidelines documented here also apply to the
``ubuntu@25.10`` interim base.

Stability and workarounds
-------------------------

In the wake of a new base, some of the updated features and packages your rock relies on will be
unstable for a time.

This is to be expected with complex software. A short-term fix or workaround in your rock's parts,
packages, and scriptlets might be needed. But sometimes a workaround lives longer than originally
planned, so it's a good practice to explain your workarounds with comments in your project's
``rockcraft.yaml``.

Update the base
---------------

Start by updating the ``base`` key:

.. code-block:: diff
    :caption: rockcraft.yaml

    - base: ubuntu@24.04
    + base: ubuntu@26.04

Check extension support
-----------------------

Not all extensions are compatible with ``ubuntu@26.04`` at launch. If your rock uses an extension,
run ``rockcraft extensions`` to see if it's available for ``ubuntu@26.04``. If your rock uses an
extension that does not yet support ``ubuntu@26.04``, it's best to wait to upgrade.

Update parts to the new .NET plugin
-----------------------------------

If your project has a part using the .NET plugin, note that bases ``ubuntu@25.10`` and
higher use a :ref:`new version <craft_parts_dotnet_v2_plugin>` of the plugin that gives
you new options to control the separate steps of the .NET build process.
Notable changes include:

* The key ``dotnet-configuration`` replaces ``dotnet-build-configuration``;
* The key ``dotnet-self-contained`` replaces ``dotnet-self-contained-runtime-identifier``.
  This new key is a boolean and the proper runtime identifier is automatically derived by the plugin.
* The ``dotnet-version`` key is used to let the plugin automatically pull the correct SDK
  to build the project. If this key is not specified, the SDK must be provided by the user via
  the standard means: ``build-packages``, ``build-snaps``, or a separate part that provides the SDK.

Update parts to the new Python plugin
-------------------------------------

Rocks targeting ``ubuntu@25.10`` and higher use a :ref:`new version <python_v2_plugin>` of the
Python plugin that seamlessly integrates the usrmerge changes implemented in those bases. The
two versions of the plugin have the same options, so in most cases the rock should pack and run
without manual intervention.

However, there are no equivalent new versions for the uv and Poetry plugins. Users of these
plugins should either wait until new versions become available, or should instead use the
corresponding tool to generate a requirements specification file that the Python plugin can use.

For example, the following part using the uv plugin in ``ubuntu@24.04``:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: rockcraft.yaml

    base: ubuntu@24.04

    parts:
      uv-part:
        plugin: uv
        ...

can be  updated to:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: rockcraft.yaml

    base: ubuntu@26.04

    parts:
      uv-part:
        plugin: python
        python-requirements:
          - uv-requirements.txt # generated by 'override-build'
        override-build: |
          # generate a requirements file from uv.lock
          uv export --quiet --no-hashes --no-dev --no-emit-workspace > uv-requirements.txt
          # call the default build of the python plugin
          craftctl default
        ...

Update packages
---------------

Package names and versions change between Ubuntu releases. If you have parts that declare
:ref:`build-packages <PartSpec.build_packages>` or :ref:`stage-packages <PartSpec.stage_packages>`,
those packages may need to be updated in your project file.

Build your rock and note any dependent packages that fail to resolve. Search the
`Ubuntu package archive <https://packages.ubuntu.com>`__ for the equivalent on Ubuntu 26.04,
and update ``build-packages`` and ``stage-packages`` accordingly.

A package may have been split, merged, or renamed. When you make a non-obvious substitution,
it's good practice to leave a comment so that future maintainers understand the change:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: rockcraft.yaml

    stage-packages:
      - libexample3t64  # renamed from libexample3 in Ubuntu 26.04
